.TH FED 1 "April 30, 2026" "fed 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fed \- open files with their default application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fed
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR...
.br
.B fed
.B \-o
\fIFILE\fR
.br
.B fed
.B \-\-options
\fIFILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fed
opens one or more files or directories with the operating system's default
application.
.PP
When
.B \-\-options
is used,
.B fed
lists applications registered on the current computer that can open the given
file. Discovery mode does not open the file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-options " " \fIFILE\fR
List applications that can open
.IR FILE .
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B fed photo.jpg
Open
.IR photo.jpg .
.TP
.B fed report.pdf notes.txt
Open multiple files.
.TP
.B fed .
Open the current directory.
.TP
.B fed --options report.pdf
List applications that can open
.IR report.pdf .
.TP
.B fed -o report.pdf
List applications that can open
.IR report.pdf
using the short option.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All requested work completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
At least one file was missing, opening failed, or options discovery failed.
.PP
Default open mode is best-effort: when multiple paths are provided, later paths
are still attempted after earlier failures.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.cargo/bin/fed
Default install location used by the Makefile and Windows installer
documentation where applicable.
.TP
.I docs/man/fed.1
Source man page in the repository.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR open (1),
.BR xdg-open (1),
.BR xdg-mime (1)
.PP
These platform mechanisms may not be available on every system.
.SH AUTHOR
The fed contributors
.SH LICENSE
MIT
